Primary key:
A unique identifier for each observation in each database table, it is similar to ID, with the following properties:

Unique: Every value in the primary key column (or columns) must be unique, automaticlly indexed.
Not Null: A primary key cannot contain any null or empty values. Every record must have a value for its primary key.
Stability: it should not change over time.



Foreigh key:
A foreign key is a column or a set of columns in a database table that refers to the primary key of another table. It's the "glue" that links tables together in a relational database.

the Cardinality between primary key and foreign keys can be one-to-one, one-to-many, and many-to-many



Normalization:
The process of separating out data to prevent redundancy. But it require expensive join operations.

Denormalization:
Keep all the redundant data by avoiding splitting out the data, it prevent expensive join operations.



CAP and ACID framework: P149



Scaling Databases:
Is the strategic process of increasing a database's capacity to manage a growing workload without compremising performance.

1. vertical scaling
upgrade CPU, RAM, etc.
pros: quick and simiple
cons: expensive, has physical limits.

2. Horizontal Scaling
add more machines (nodes) to a system.
pros: cheaper
cons: challenges in infrasturcture management



Relational (SQL) Database and NoSQL Database:
1. Relational (SQL) Database:
Data is organized into table structure with predefined columns and data types. This rigid structure ensures data consistency and integrity.
pros: Ensure data integrity through a defined schema and structure, uses standard query language, easier to learn, mature technology and well-established
cons: lack of flexibility, primarily scale vertically.

2. NoSQL Databases:
They do not require a predefined schema or table structure and can store various types of data, including structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data.
pros: high flexibility, cost-effective horizontal scalability
cons: not consistency on schema and data structure, No SQL language, less mature.



MapReduce P152:
A popular data processing framework that allows for concurrent processing of large volumes of data




